Add post about link_package, configure_repositories and tokens in UI (#307)
openSUSE/obs-landing: _posts/development/2021-08-02-link-package-configure-repositories-and-ui.md

---
layout: post
title: "SCM Integration: Step by Step"
category: development
---

Branching packages is not enough for you? Let's go step by step 😉  
OBS moves forward on its integration with GitHub/GitLab by adding two new steps: `link_package` and `configure_repositories`.
Starting today, you can set up your SCM to make OBS create a package linked to an existing one.
You can also configure the repositories you want to build your package for.
And as if that weren’t enough, you are now able to manage the tokens through the web UI.

> Join [the beta program](https://openbuildservice.org/2018/10/04/the-beta-program/) and keep reading to discover all you can do.

Reviewer: We should use relative links instead of absolute links:

```suggestion
Join [the beta program](/2018/10/04/the-beta-program/) and keep reading to discover all you can do.
```

Author: done

{% include partials/_series-of-posts-about-scm-integration.md %}

## Tokens on the Web User Interface

> In our [first blog post] https://openbuildservice.org/2021/05/31/scm-integration/ regarding the SCM integration with OBS, we explained how to handle workflow tokens via API.

Reviewer: Same here, relative links instead of absolute links.
```suggestion
In our [first blog post](/2021/05/31/scm-integration) regarding the SCM integration with OBS, we explained how to handle workflow tokens via API.
```

Author: done

---
layout: post
title: "SCM Integration: Step by Step"
category: development
---

Branching packages is not enough for you? Let's go step by step 😉  
OBS moves forward on its integration with GitHub/GitLab by adding two new steps: `link_package` and `configure_repositories`.

> Starting today, you can set up your SCM to make OBS create a package linked to an existing one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting today, you can set up your OBS workflows to create a package linked to an existing one.
```

Author: done

> You can also configure the repositories you want to build your package for.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also configure the repositories of a project in which you want to build packages.
```

Author: done

> And as if that weren’t enough, you are now able to manage the tokens through the web UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And as if this wasn’t enough, you are now able to manage the tokens through the web UI.
```

Author: I took the sentence from the [Collins Dictionary](https://www.collinsdictionary.com/dictionary/spanish-english/y-por-si-fuera-poco), I don't know if the version with `wasn't` is also valid.

Reviewer: They are both valid, but the version with `weren't` is more formal. It depends on the the tone you want, I would say it's not formal when reading other sentences in the blog post.

Join [the beta program](https://openbuildservice.org/2018/10/04/the-beta-program/) and keep reading to discover all you can do.

{% include partials/_series-of-posts-about-scm-integration.md %}

## Tokens on the Web User Interface

In our [first blog post] https://openbuildservice.org/2021/05/31/scm-integration/ regarding the SCM integration with OBS, we explained how to handle workflow tokens via API.

As we strive to make your work easier, from now on you can manage any kind of OBS tokens through the web interface.

> Go to your profile page and click on the action `Manage Your Tokens` on the left-hand side menu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Go to your profile page and click on the action `Manage Your Tokens` in the left-hand side menu.
```

Author: done

<figure>
  <img src="/images/posts/step_by_step/manage_your_tokens.png" alt="Link to Manage Your Tokens in the web UI" width="500px" />
  <figcaption>Link to "Manage Your Tokens" in the web UI</figcaption>
</figure>

<figure>
  <img src="/images/posts/step_by_step/tokens_ui.gif" alt="Managing tokens in the web UI" width="1000px" />
  <figcaption>Managing tokens in the web UI</figcaption>
</figure>

> For now, only workflow tokens can be updated to change the SCM token attached to them. This is in case you had to regenerate the SCM token if you for example lost it.

Reviewer: I wrote this in the Etherpad, but just realized that I forgot commas... oopsie!

```suggestion
For now, only workflow tokens can be updated to change the SCM token attached to them. This is in case you had to regenerate the SCM token if you, for example, lost it.
```

Author: no problem

## The `link_package` Step

You probably tested the first step we implemented: `branch_package`.
You configured the workflow and ... 💣 boom! a new project/package appeared in OBS and the result of its builds were reported back to your pull/merge request.

What if you want to do the same but instead of branching the package you simply want to **link it**? Now you can.

Follow these easy steps for that:

> - Set up the integration between GitHub/GitLab and OBS if you haven't yet. https://openbuildservice.org/2021/05/31/scm-integration/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Set up the integration between GitHub/GitLab and OBS. If you have not yet, please refer to this [blog post](/2021/05/31/scm-integration/).
```

Author: done

> - Set up the integration between GitHub/GitLab and OBS if you haven't yet. https://openbuildservice.org/2021/05/31/scm-integration/

Reviewer 2: Maybe a link is missed here?

Author: true! I fixed two of them

- Add the new step to `.obs/workflows.yml`

```
workflow:
  steps:
    - link_package:
        source_project: games
        source_package: ctris
```

> Providing the source project `games` and the source package `ctris` OBS will link the package `home:$OBS_USER:games:PR-$PR_NUMBER/ctris` to `games/ctris`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Providing the source project `games` and the source package `ctris`, OBS will link the package `home:$OBS_USER:games:PR-$PR_NUMBER/ctris` to `games/ctris`.
```

Author: done

This step is equivalent to **osc linkpac**.
Unlike the `branch_package` step, the `link_package` step creates a new package
but does not copy the files nor the repositories from the source package.

**NOTE:**
The target project is going to be named after the source project, `home:$OBS_USER:$SOURCE_PROJECT_NAME:PR-$PR_NUMBER`,
and will contain the linked package, i.e. `home:Iggy:games:PR-14/ctris`.

## The `configure_repositories` Step

> You can not imagine how versatile the workflows could be with this new step!

Reviewer: Since this is not related to a specific set of workflows, but just workflows in general, we should remove `the`:

```suggestion
You can not imagine how versatile workflows could be with this new step!
```

Author: ok!

> Simply indicate which repositories you want to build your packages for in the SCM configuration file. Easy peasy!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Simply indicate which repositories you want for a project in which you'll build your packages for in the SCM configuration file. Easy peasy!
```

Author: I rephrased it, let me know what you think, please:

`Inside the SCM configuration file, simply indicate which repositories you want for a project in which you'll build your packages for. Easy peasy!`

> - Set up the integration between GitHub/GitLab and OBS if you have not yet. https://openbuildservice.org/2021/05/31/scm-integration/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Set up the integration between GitHub/GitLab and OBS. If you have not yet, please refer to this [blog post](/2021/05/31/scm-integration/).
```

Author: done

- Add the new step to `.obs/workflows.yml`

```
workflow:
  steps:

>     - configure_repositories:

Reviewer: This step won't work by itself, as you wrote below under **NOTE:**.

So should we have `branch_package` in this example? This way the example would actually work.

Author: ok! I'll update the YAML.

        source_project: games
        repositories:
          - name: openSUSE_Tumbleweed
            target_project: openSUSE:Factory
            target_repository: snapshot
            architectures:
              - x86_64
              - i586
          - name: openSUSE_Leap_15.2
            target_project: openSUSE:Leap:15.2
            target_repository: standard
            architectures:
              - x86_64
```

Providing the source project `games` and a list of repositories, OBS will configure the target project,`home:$OBS_USER:$SOURCE_PROJECT_NAME:PR-$PR_NUMBER`,
with the provided repositories and architectures.

A name, a target project, a target repository and the architectures are required to define each repository.

**NOTE:**  
**The source project** has to be a project which was a source project from a previous step like `link_package` or `branch_package`.  

> **The target project** is going to be named after the source project, `home:$OBS_USER:$SOURCE_PROJECT_NAME:PR-$PR_NUMBER`, i.e. `home:Iggy:games:PR-14`.

Reviewer: I'm not sure if this is clear enough that we're not referring to `target_project` under `repositories`.

Author: I rephrase it, please have a look

## More to Come!

> Do not miss the upcoming blog posts, there are a lot of features to come:

Reviewer: Same as my previous comment above specific vs generic:

```suggestion
Do not miss upcoming blog posts, there are a lot of features to come:
```

Author: true!
